Jesus needed the Holy Spirit


“ The operation of the Holy Spirit among men, in the three periods Of human may be defined by three words: “upon,
With and in.”

In the Old Testament He came upon selected persons and remained for a season ( Judg. 14: 19) , In the gospels He is
Represented as dwelling with the disciples in the person of Christ (John 14:17). From the second chapter of Acts onward
He is spoken of as being in the people of God (1Cor. 3:16.) ” This was taken from, “THE Holy Spirit “ by Billy Graham.

Why do we need the Holy Spirit in us?

God’s standard is to, “Love your enemies, bless them that curse you , do good to them that hate you, and pray for them
Which despitefully use you, and persecute you: Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect” (Matthew 5:48).

Yet the Bible says, “Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God “ (1 Cor. 15:50 ); Even Jesus said,
“The Son can do nothing of himself, and I can of mine own self do nothing” (John 5: 19 & 30).

Then how can we work the works of God? Zachariah 4:6 says, “Not by might , nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the lord of host.”
And John 6: 28 & 29 says, “Then said they unto Jesus,  what shall we do that we might work the works of God?
Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. “

If we believe on him, what does He promise? “A new heart also will I give you, and a new Spirit will I put within you: and I will
Take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a new heart of flesh . And I will put my spirit within you,,
And cause you to walk in my ways and you shall keep my judgments, and do them ! (Ezekiel 36: 26 - 27).

That is why the Gospel in simply, “Christ in you the hope of glory: (Colossians 1:27). The Cross put us right with God, and gave
Us a new life united to Christ, by His Spirit. “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me,
And the Life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the son of God, who loved, and gave himself for me” (Galatians 2:20_.

Our perfect pattern , Jesus Christ walked in the Spirit the same way . And 1 John 4:17b says “As He is, so are we in this world.”

Jesus was born of the Holy Spirit  — Luke 1:35
Jesus was baptized by the Holy Sprit — Luke 3-21 22.
Jesus was driven by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness to be tested by Satan — Matt. 4:11 , Mark 1L12-13: & Luke 4: 1-13
Jesus was confirmed and anointed with power by the Holy Spirit — Luke 4:14
Jesus lived and walked by the Holy Spirit — John 3:34
Jesus died by the Holy Spirit — Hebrews 9:14
Jesus was raised by the Holy Spirit — Romans 8:11
